The President:
This week, I spent some
time in Racine, Wisconsin,
talking with folks who are doing
their best to cope with the
aftermath of a brutal recession.
And while I was there, a young
woman asked me a question I hear
all the time: "What are we doing
as a nation to bring jobs back
to this country?"
Well, on Friday, we learned that
after 22 straight months of job
loss, our economy has now
created jobs in the private
sector for six months in a row.
That's a positive sign.
But the truth is, the recession
from which we're emerging has
left us in a hole that's
about 8 million jobs deep.
And as I've said from
the day I took office,
it's going to take months, even
years, to dig our way out --
and it's going to require an
all-hands-on-deck effort.
In the short term, we're
fighting to speed up this
recovery and keep the economy
growing by all means possible.
That means extending
unemployment insurance for
workers who lost their job.
That means getting small
businesses the loans they need
to keep their doors open
and hire new workers.
And that means sending relief to
states so they don't have to lay
off thousands of teachers
and firefighters and police officers.
Still, at a time when millions
of Americans feel a deep sense
of urgency in their own lives,
Republican leaders in Washington
just don't get it.
While a majority of Senators
support taking these steps to
help the American people,
some are playing the same old
Washington games and using
their power to hold this relief
hostage -- a move that only ends up holding back our recovery.
It doesn't make sense.
But I promised those
folks in Wisconsin --
and I promise all of you
-- that we won't back down.
We're going to keep fighting
to advance our recovery.
And we're going to keep
competing aggressively to make
sure the jobs and industries of
the future are taking root right
here in America.
That's one of the reasons
why we're accelerating the
transition to a clean energy
economy and doubling our use of
renewable energy sources
like wind and solar power --
steps that have the potential to
create whole new industries and
hundreds of thousands
of new jobs in America.
In fact, today, I'm announcing
that the Department of Energy is
awarding nearly $2 billion in
conditional commitments to two
solar companies.
The first is Abengoa Solar, a
company that has agreed to build
one of the largest solar plants
in the world right here in the
United States.
After years of watching
companies build things and
create jobs overseas, it's good
news that we've attracted a
company to our shores to build a
plant and create jobs right here
in America.
In the short term, construction
will create approximately 1,600
jobs in Arizona.
What's more, over 70% of the
components and products used in
construction will be
manufactured in the U.S.A.,
boosting jobs and communities in
states up and down the supply chain.
Once completed, this plant will
be the first large-scale solar
plant in the U.S. to actually store the energy it generates
for later use -- even at night.
And it will generate
enough clean,
renewable energy to
power 70,000 homes.
The second company is
Abound Solar Manufacturing,
which will manufacture advanced
solar panels at two new plants,
creating more than 2,000 construction jobs and 1,500
permanent jobs.
A Colorado plant is
already underway,
and an Indiana plant will be
built in what's now an empty
Chrysler factory.
When fully operational, these
plants will produce millions of
state-of-the-art solar
panels each year.
These are just two of the many
clean energy investments in the
Recovery Act.
Already, I've seen the payoff
from these investments.
I've seen once-shuttered
factories humming with new
workers who are building solar
panels and wind turbines;
rolling up their sleeves to help
America win the race for the
clean energy economy.
So that's some of
what we're doing.
But the truth is, steps like
these won't replace all the jobs
we've lost overnight.
I know folks are struggling.
I know this Fourth of July
weekend finds many Americans
wishing things were a
bit easier right now.
I do too.
But what this weekend reminds
us, more than any other,
is that we are a nation that has
always risen to the challenges
before it.
We're a nation
that, 234 years ago,
declared our independence from
one of the greatest empires the
world had ever known.
We're a nation that mustered
a sense of common purpose to
overcome Depression
and fear itself.
We're a nation that embraced a
call to greatness and saved the
world from tyranny.
That's who we are -- a nation that turns times of trial into
times of triumph -- and I know America will write our own
destiny once more.
I wish every American a safe
and happy Fourth of July.
And to all our troops
serving in harm's way,
I want you to know you have the
support of a grateful nation and
a proud Commander-in-Chief.
Thank you, God bless you, and
God bless the United States of America.